Long long ago, there was a well in a village…
A donkey, an ass, fell into that well, once.
A big hole.
A deep one.
And, this ass fell into it.
And it cried out aloud, tried calling the
farmer for help, but it was a little old and
the farmer thought, … it is not worth trying
to retrieve this donkey, so, let me just leave
it… ‘ass’ it is, and probably just bury
it there..
Anyway, this well is an old one, an empty
hole..
So, he started throwing dug up dirt into it.
The ass cried, feeling bad that it wasn’t
being taken out..
But, over time, it realised that there WAS
a way out..
It shook off the dirt that was thrown on to
its back, .. converted that into an inclined
plane of steps, and this ass came out of that
hole!
This is the Asshole Story.
Namaste!
Contemptible.
Disdainful.
Despicable.
Remember that DonkeyPit we talked about?
It is about those DonkeyPits that we are going
to talk about today.
In fact, we are going to do it in TWO episodes.
This is Bob Sutton.
We have met him earlier.
We have seen his books.
He is a specialist in DonkeyPits.
So, a book like this one, another like this
one (about how to escape from them), and what
if those people became Bosses.. how to handle
that.. a book for that.
He is a specialist.
A specialist in DonkeyPits.
So, what is he saying?
He says, first of all, everybody goes through
that phase.
Every one of them.
In the previous episode, we encountered tantrums
of children..
The Tamil word “Thanthiram”.
Remember?
Similarly, the tantrum of the child and the
behaviour, the attitude, the personality,
of the employee or the team mate, or even
the boss, … will fall into two categories.
One?
A phase that all of us have to tolerate and
put up with.
That is the Temporary DonkeyPit.
Every one of us, we end up being DonkeyPits
at least for SOME TIME, SOME DAY, SOME SITUATION.
The same holds true for children too.
They are not in control, they simply “lose
it”.
But, this is okay.
Forgivable.
The second KIND of people?
They are called Certified DonkeyPits.
Why?
The child KNOWS that he is demonstrating a
tantrum.
He knows that only by throwing a tantrum he
can bend you to his will.
And, he knows that he is doing that only to
achieve that end.
“I know.. I am switching to tantrum mode
just so I can bend you to play it my way”.
Similarly, there are bosses, there are colleagues,
there are teammates, who are Certified DonkeyPits.
How to handle that second type?
How to escape?
How to not be such a person?
How to spot such a person?
Let’s see..
A short checklist..!
Could this person be a DonkeyPit?
Yes, they will not let you talk!
In Tamil, they have this phrase, “Cycle
Gap..la”..
You can’t get a word in edgewise!
They will just rule the conversation.
They will own it.
They will not acknowledge your presence.
You can also find out if they are a DonkeyPit
by looking at the Questions versus Statements
ratio..
Are they asking at least a few questions?
Is this correct?
Is it right to do it this way?
Is this possible for you?
Nope.
Everything is a declaration.
A statement.
An opinion, stated as a fact!
DonkeyPit Indicator!
How about their volunteering ability?
Somebody wants to do something, no no, I have
my work to do.
Somebody wants you to help..
No no, that’s not what I am being paid for.
Typical jerk attitude.
Also, they are territorial.
They will not interfere in somebody else’s
work, oh, sometimes they do, but they will
not allow anybody to interfere in their work.
Can I take a look?
Can I give you suggestions?
Can I review it?
NO!
They do not allow you to cross that boundary
line that they have drawn.
Typical DonkeyPit attitude!
Also, they seem to lack emotions..
That “So what..”, “What if..”, “Why
do I care..”..
Attitude..
Yes, there is an emergency, but..
I have got my peanuts!
To crunch!
That attitude.
Again is an indicator that probably they are
borderline DonkeyPits.
Also, that apathy.
“I am not bothered about..”?
It can also become pessimism.
This is just not going to work out.
This is not going to happen.
That wet blanket.
If they walk, there would be a cloud over
their head, raining down on them!
There will be a shadow passing as they move
past you.
People with such an attitude, .. all the kinds
of people described above, are typical DonkeyPit
people!
There is one more..
That I need to add to that checklist.
I encountered that word in this special dictionary.
John Koenig, the author of this dictionary,
has collected words from various, strange,
international languages..
Sorry, he says.
There are no words for such stuff in the English
language!
I have picked these Japanese and Finnish and
other such words and I am telling you that
this word means this in that place.
And, to recreate that emotion, we don’t
have an English word, please use that word
as it is!!
A word like that, is “Sonder”.
From The Dictionary of Obscure Sorrows.
The word “Sonder” means this.
It is a noun..
You see a person on the road.
Some random woman or man.
Do you have any understanding that they could
be living an equally complicated, complex,
challenged, troubled life?
Or, are you the only Hero there is?!
Everybody else — bit players?
Look at those words.
Vivid and complex.
You think about your own life, your own universe..
The same desires, the same fears, that person
might be having.
And, in that person’s life, in that person’s
view, you are just an extra!
Bit role player.
Remember the Bahubali movie?
Every doorway will have two soldiers.
Standing, with a spear and a shield.
They will give way.
That’s their role.
Do you think all of us are like that?
In your life?
Or, do we have a family, a career, a desire,
a hobby, a pending job, a fear?
That acknowledgement?
Is sonder.
And so, if you don’t have sonder, DonkeyPit!!
I received this in Whatsapp, via a forward.
Organisational hierarchy.
Tree structure.
Up above, there is the CEO.
And, the structure goes..
Yes, CEO, Executives, Managers, .. and so
on.
Do you realise what’s happening?
Simply because of the way this has been structured,
from down below, when you look upwards, every
one of those people, or birds, when they look
up, they see ONLY DonkeyPits!
And..?
When people look from above, downwards?
All the bosses and managers, and the leaders,
when they look downwards?
They see only shit!!
This is probably the inescapable reality of
how teams are structured…
Is it not?
If we seat them in this way, this is the problem,
dear folks!
“Ahan, nope!
I have never seen a DonkeyPit in my team!
We are the best!
We are the closest!
Amazing chemistry!”
— Seems, there is an important phrase..
Like a proverb..
Print it and stick it on to your secret cupboard,
and read it daily, advises the author!
The phrase goes: “If you are looking for
a DonkeyPit in your team, and you are not
able to find one, … YOU could be that!”
Ouch!
Reflect on it!
It could well be you!
Because, there is nothing called a “No DonkeyPit
team!”
Think about that!
Why should we be afraid of it??
Let us consider an average apple.
Slightly diseased apple.
Troublesome.
Infected.
Starting to decay.
A normal apple.
If I keep a healthy, super-good apple…
can I hope to improve the average apple in
the middle?
“See, look at me..
I am a superstar!
I am a performer!
Learn from me!
Be influenced by me!
Have a positive impact!
Be motivated!”
Yes, probably, in some rare cases, this might
be possible, but, in the world of apples at
least, that is not gonna happen!
BUT…!
What if, I introduced this person, a rotten
apple, an infected apple, the bad apple, next
to that person?
What do you think will happen??
Three days!
This is what’s gonna happen!
This is classic.
In a team, it doesn’t matter what kind of
superstar performers you have.
The chain is only as strong as its weakest
link.
What matters is, .. have you ensure there
are no DonkeyPits!?
Having spotted a DonkeyPit, have you ensured
that they have been kicked out of the team
and the company?
Hard conversations, tough conversations, but
have you had them?
Closing thought..
the author who had written about those DonkeyPits..,
Sutton, says, “That infection doesn’t
just spread from the bad apple to the good
apple.. not just that, it started affecting
the people handling the apples!”
We have seen this in the covid story.
So many nurses got infected simply because
they were treating people with covid.
That virus.
Some nurses even died, I remember.
Similarly, towards the end of his research,
Robert Sutton says, “My wife started saying
‘you have changed, you have become such
a jerk!
What happened to the gentleman in you?!’
Why did this happen?
When there is a rotten apple, and it has not
been removed from the barrel, yes, the rotten
apple has the power to influence the others,
yes, but not just that..
The other apples next to this rotten one,
look at it and start thinking aloud..
“Hey, our Master is tolerating the behaviour
of such a rotten apple too, he is retaining
this one.. why should I struggle and work
extra hard and maintain my health and chemistry?
Let me also slip into lethargy and rot!
Feet on table, pillow balancing the back and
head, leaning back and enjoying Netflix on
a working day at office!”
That attitude seems OK if you allow a DonkeyPit
to continue!
That is the problem!
There is a Part Two to this.
We will meet again, very soon!